docs/analysis/DEEP_THINK_RECONCILIATION_RQ048ab_RQ014_RQ013_SCHEMA_FOUNDATION.md, before:

# Deep Think Reconciliation: Schema Foundation
# RQ-048a, RQ-048b, RQ-014, RQ-013

> **Reconciled:** 14 January 2026
> **Protocol:** 9 (External Research Reconciliation) + Protocol 10 (Bias Analysis)
> **Source:** Google Deep Think / Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking
> **Prompt:** `DEEP_THINK_PROMPT_RQ048ab_RQ014_RQ013_SCHEMA_FOUNDATION.md`
> **Overall Verdict:** HIGH QUALITY — Minor modifications for MVP scope compliance

---

## Executive Summary

The Deep Think response provided comprehensive architectural definitions for "Physics of Identity" in The Pact. Key outputs:

| RQ | Deep Think Output | Reconciliation Verdict |
|----|-------------------|------------------------|
| **RQ-048a** | 6-Domain Wellness Model (vocational, somatic, relational, intellectual, creative, spiritual) | MODIFY → 5 domains (drop spiritual, merge creative into intellectual) |
| **RQ-048b** | Cabinet of 5 (soft), Safety 9 (DB), Hard 15 | MODIFY → Hard cap 12 (not 15) |
| **RQ-014** | Asymmetric Switching Cost Matrix validated | ACCEPT |
| **RQ-013** | Directed Graph Topology with "Airlock" Composite Keys | ACCEPT |

---

## Phase 1: Locked Decision Audit

| CD | Requirement | Deep Think Compliance | Status |
|----|-------------|----------------------|--------|
| **CD-015** | 4-state energy model (high_focus, high_physical, social, recovery) | Uses exact 4 states in energy_state_enum | **COMPATIBLE** |
| **CD-016** | DeepSeek V3.2 / R1 Distilled | N/A (schema doesn't affect AI selection) | **COMPATIBLE** |
| **CD-017** | Android-first | N/A (schema is platform-agnostic) | **COMPATIBLE** |
| **CD-018** | ESSENTIAL/VALUABLE/NICE-TO-HAVE threshold | 6-domain taxonomy needs evaluation | **NEEDS REVIEW** |

**Conflicts Found:** NONE with locked CDs. However, 6-domain taxonomy expansion requires CD-018 evaluation.

---

## Phase 2: Data Reality Audit

| Proposal | Android Reality | Verification |
|----------|-----------------|--------------|
| VECTOR(3072) | gemini-embedding-001 confirmed in RQ-019 | **CORRECT** |
| Chronotype bias | No platform dependency | **CORRECT** |
| Composite key "Airlock" | Standard PostgreSQL | **CORRECT** |

---

## Phase 3: Implementation Reality Check

### Schema Reality

| Proposed Table | Exists? | Notes |
|----------------|---------|-------|
| `identity_facets` | NO | Greenfield — Deep Think schema can be adopted |
| `identity_topology` | NO | Greenfield |
| `psychometric_roots` | Schema exists in RQ-012 | Must integrate |

### Missing from Deep Think Schema (compared to prior research)

| Field | Original Proposal | Deep Think | Issue |
|-------|-------------------|------------|-------|
| `keystone_habit_id` | Included | **MISSING** | Needed for "One habit = one identity" anchor |
| `sort_order` | E-001 (Escalated) | **MISSING** | User-defined ordering |
| `psychological_manifestations` link | RQ-012 | **NOT REFERENCED** | Fractal Trinity integration |

---

## Phase 4: Scope & Complexity Audit (CD-018)

| Proposal | Rating | Rationale |
|----------|--------|-----------|
| 6-Domain Taxonomy | NEEDS EVALUATION | Original was 4. Is "intellectual", "creative", "spiritual" necessary for MVP? |
| Cognitive Limits (5/9/15) | VALUABLE | Solid research basis (Cowan 2001) |
| Switching Cost Matrix | ESSENTIAL | Core to JITAI intelligence |
| Airlock Pattern | ESSENTIAL | Security/isolation pattern |
| DEPENDENT interaction type | VALUABLE | Captures parent-child facet relationships |

### 6-Domain Analysis

| Domain | In Original? | Deep Think Justification | MVP Necessity |
|--------|--------------|--------------------------|---------------|
| vocational | (was "professional") | Renamed | **ESSENTIAL** |
| somatic | (was "physical") | Renamed | **ESSENTIAL** |
| relational | Same | Same | **ESSENTIAL** |
| intellectual | NEW | "Skill acquisition, curiosity" | **VALUABLE** |
| creative | NEW | "Artistic expression" | **VALUABLE** |
| spiritual | NEW | "Meaning, ethics, service" | **NICE-TO-HAVE** |

---

## Phase 5: ACCEPT / MODIFY / REJECT / ESCALATE

### ACCEPT (8 proposals)

| # | Proposal | Rationale |
|---|----------|-----------|
| 1 | 4-State Energy Enum | Matches CD-015 exactly |
| 2 | Asymmetric Switching Cost Matrix | Well-researched (Leroy 2009), validates CD-015 |
| 3 | Chronotype Modifiers | Extends RQ-012 chronotype work |
| 4 | Cognitive Limits: Soft 5 | Cowan (2001) research basis solid |
| 5 | Directed Graph Topology | Correctly models asymmetric relationships |
| 6 | Airlock Pattern (Composite FK) | Excellent security pattern for tenant isolation |
| 7 | DEPENDENT interaction type | Captures parent-child (e.g., "Runner" depends on "Athlete") |
| 8 | Passive Energy Detection Algorithm | Aligns with RQ-010a/b permission accuracy model |

### MODIFY (4 proposals)

| # | Proposal | Original | Modified | Rationale |
|---|----------|----------|----------|-----------|
| 1 | Domain Taxonomy | 6 domains | **5 domains** (merge creative into intellectual) | "Creative" overlaps with "Intellectual" for MVP; reduces cognitive load |
| 2 | Hard Cap | 15 | **12** | 15 is excessive; 12 = 2× safety cap, sufficient for edge cases |
| 3 | Schema: Missing keystone_habit_id | Not included | **ADD** `keystone_habit_id UUID REFERENCES habits(id)` | Core to "One keystone habit per facet" concept |
| 4 | Schema: Missing sort_order | Not included | **ADD** `sort_order INT DEFAULT 0` | E-001 escalation (user recommendation: Include) |

### REJECT (1 proposal)

| # | Proposal | Reason |
|---|----------|--------|
| 1 | "spiritual" domain as separate | **OVER-ENGINEERED** for MVP. Can be added post-launch. Users seeking "spiritual" can use "relational" (service to others) or free-text labels. |

### ESCALATE (1 proposal)

| # | Proposal | Question | Options | Recommendation |
|---|----------|----------|---------|----------------|
| 1 | 5-Domain vs 4-Domain | Is "intellectual" distinct enough from "vocational" to warrant separate domain? | A) Keep 5 (vocational, somatic, relational, intellectual, creative-merged) B) Keep 4 (vocational absorbs intellectual) | **A (5 domains)** — "The Reader" is clearly distinct from "The Founder" |

---

## Phase 6: Protocol 10 — Bias Analysis

### Assumptions Identified

| # | Assumption | Validity | Basis |
|---|------------|----------|-------|
| 1 | Cowan (2001) 4±1 working memory applies to identity facets | **MEDIUM** | Study was about abstract chunks, not identity constructs. Extrapolation reasonable but untested. |
| 2 | Hettler (1976) 6 Wellness Dimensions are universal | **MEDIUM** | Western-centric model; may not capture all cultural identity patterns. |
| 3 | Leroy (2009) Attention Residue applies to identity switching | **HIGH** | Direct application — switching from work identity to family identity is exactly this phenomenon. |
| 4 | Focus → Social costs more than Social → Focus | **HIGH** | Well-documented in interruption science (Ophir et al., 2009; Mark et al., 2008). |
| 5 | 15 hard cap is sufficient | **LOW** | No empirical basis cited; appears arbitrary. Reduced to 12 in MODIFY. |
| 6 | "Airlock" pattern prevents all cross-tenant leaks | **HIGH** | PostgreSQL FK constraints are deterministic. |
| 7 | Passive energy detection achieves useful accuracy | **MEDIUM** | Depends heavily on permission grant rates (RQ-010a: varies 30-85%). |

### Confidence Decision

| LOW-Validity Count | Action |
|--------------------|--------|
| 1 (Assumption #5) | **PROCEED** with HIGH confidence (only 1 LOW, and we modified it) |

---

## Summary of Changes

| Category | Count |
|----------|-------|
| ACCEPT | 8 |
| MODIFY | 4 |
| REJECT | 1 |
| ESCALATE | 1 |

### Key Changes from Deep Think

1. **5 domains (not 6)** — drop "spiritual", merge "creative" into "intellectual"
2. **Hard cap 12 (not 15)**
3. **Add `keystone_habit_id` field**
4. **Add `sort_order` field** (per E-001)

---

## Validated Schema (Post-Reconciliation)

```sql
-- 1. ENUMS (MODIFIED from Deep Think)
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vector;

CREATE TYPE facet_domain_enum AS ENUM (
  'vocational',    -- Career, wealth, production, craft
  'somatic',       -- Physical body, health, athletics
  'relational',    -- Interpersonal, family, community
  'intellectual',  -- Skill acquisition, curiosity, INCLUDES creative expression
  'recovery'       -- Rest, meaning, inner peace (ABSORBED spiritual)
);

CREATE TYPE energy_state_enum AS ENUM (
  'high_focus', 'high_physical', 'social', 'recovery'
);

CREATE TYPE facet_status_enum AS ENUM (
  'active', 'maintenance', 'dormant', 'archived'
);

CREATE TYPE interaction_type_enum AS ENUM (
  'SYNERGISTIC', 'ANTAGONISTIC', 'COMPETITIVE', 'DEPENDENT'
);

-- 2. IDENTITY FACETS (MODIFIED: added keystone_habit_id, sort_order)
CREATE TABLE identity_facets (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES auth.users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,

  -- Core Identity
  label TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (char_length(label) BETWEEN 2 AND 50),
  domain facet_domain_enum NOT NULL,
  aspiration TEXT CHECK (char_length(aspiration) < 280),

  -- State & Economics
  typical_energy_state energy_state_enum NOT NULL,
  chronotype_bias TEXT DEFAULT 'neutral', -- 'morning', 'evening', 'neutral'

  -- ADDED: Keystone habit anchor (from prior research)
  keystone_habit_id UUID REFERENCES habits(id) ON DELETE SET NULL,

  -- ADDED: User-defined ordering (E-001)
  sort_order INT DEFAULT 0,

  -- AI & Metadata
  embedding VECTOR(3072), -- Gemini 001 dimensions
  status facet_status_enum NOT NULL DEFAULT 'active',

  -- Timestamps
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  last_engaged_at TIMESTAMPTZ,

  -- Constraints
  CONSTRAINT uk_facets_label_user UNIQUE (user_id, label),
  CONSTRAINT uk_facets_id_user UNIQUE (id, user_id) -- Airlock pattern
);

-- 3. IDENTITY TOPOLOGY (UNCHANGED from Deep Think)
CREATE TABLE identity_topology (
  source_facet_id UUID NOT NULL,
  target_facet_id UUID NOT NULL,
  user_id UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES auth.users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,

  -- Physics
  interaction_type interaction_type_enum NOT NULL,
  friction_coefficient FLOAT NOT NULL CHECK (friction_coefficient BETWEEN 0.0 AND 1.0),
  switching_cost_minutes INT DEFAULT 15,

  -- Metadata
  is_inferred BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),

  -- Constraints
  PRIMARY KEY (source_facet_id, target_facet_id),
  CONSTRAINT no_self_loops CHECK (source_facet_id != target_facet_id),
  CONSTRAINT fk_source_facet FOREIGN KEY (source_facet_id, user_id)
    REFERENCES identity_facets(id, user_id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  CONSTRAINT fk_target_facet FOREIGN KEY (target_facet_id, user_id)
    REFERENCES identity_facets(id, user_id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- 4. INDEXES
CREATE INDEX idx_facets_user_status ON identity_facets(user_id, status);
CREATE INDEX idx_facets_sort ON identity_facets(user_id, sort_order);
CREATE INDEX idx_topology_user ON identity_topology(user_id);

-- 5. TRIGGER: FACET LIMITS (MODIFIED: hard cap 12)
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION check_facet_limits()
RETURNS TRIGGER AS $$
DECLARE
  active_count INT;
  total_count INT;
BEGIN
  -- 1. Check Hard Cap (Total: 12, reduced from 15)
  SELECT COUNT(*) INTO total_count FROM identity_facets
  WHERE user_id = NEW.user_id AND status != 'archived';

  IF total_count >= 12 THEN
    RAISE EXCEPTION 'Hard Limit: Maximum 12 facets allowed per user.';
  END IF;

  -- 2. Check Safety Cap (Active: 9)
  IF NEW.status = 'active' THEN
    SELECT COUNT(*) INTO active_count FROM identity_facets
    WHERE user_id = NEW.user_id AND status = 'active' AND id != NEW.id;

    IF active_count >= 9 THEN
      RAISE EXCEPTION 'Safety Limit: Maximum 9 active facets allowed (UX suggests 5).';
    END IF;
  END IF;

  RETURN NEW;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;

CREATE TRIGGER tr_check_facet_limits
BEFORE INSERT OR UPDATE ON identity_facets
FOR EACH ROW EXECUTE FUNCTION check_facet_limits();
```

---

## Validated Switching Cost Matrix (RQ-014)

### Asymmetric Switching Costs (Minutes)

Time required to transition from [ROW] to [COLUMN]:

| FROM ↓ / TO → | high_focus | high_physical | social | recovery |
|---------------|------------|---------------|--------|----------|
| **high_focus** | — | 15 (Gear up) | 30 (Detach) | 45 (Wind down) |
| **high_physical** | 25 (Cool down) | — | 20 (Clean up) | 15 (Crash) |
| **social** | 30 (Residue) | 15 (Release) | — | 15 (Decompress) |
| **recovery** | 20 (Inertia) | 15 (Warm up) | 10 (Wake up) | — |

### Chronotype Modifiers (INTO high_focus)

| Chronotype | 06:00-10:00 (AM) | 20:00-24:00 (PM) |
|------------|------------------|------------------|
| Lion (Morning) | -5 min (Flow) | +15 min (Crash) |
| Bear (Normal) | 0 min | +5 min |
| Wolf (Evening) | +20 min (Inertia) | -5 min (Flow) |
| Dolphin (Insomnia) | +5 min | +5 min |

---

## Implementation Tasks Generated

### New Tasks (Add to RESEARCH_QUESTIONS.md)

| Task ID | Description | Phase | Priority | Blocks |
|---------|-------------|-------|----------|--------|
| **A-01** | Create `identity_facets` table with validated schema | A | P0 | All Phase H |
| **A-06** | Create `identity_topology` table with Airlock pattern | A | P0 | A-13 |
| **A-19** | Add `keystone_habit_id` FK to identity_facets | A | P1 | — |
| **A-20** | Add `sort_order` field to identity_facets | A | P1 | — |
| **A-21** | Create facet limit trigger (5/9/12 thresholds) | A | P1 | — |
| **B-15** | Implement passive energy detection algorithm | B | P1 | JITAI |

### Escalated Decision (E-004)

| ID | Decision | Options | Recommendation | Impact |
|----|----------|---------|----------------|--------|
| **E-004** | 5-Domain vs 4-Domain Taxonomy | A) 5 domains (intellectual separate) B) 4 domains (vocational absorbs intellectual) | **A (5 domains)** | Enum definition, UI facet creation |

---

## RQ Status Updates

| RQ | Previous Status | New Status | Notes |
|----|-----------------|------------|-------|
| **RQ-048a** | NEEDS RESEARCH | **COMPLETE** | 5-Domain taxonomy validated |
| **RQ-048b** | NEEDS RESEARCH | **COMPLETE** | Cognitive limits (5/9/12) validated |
| **RQ-014** | COMPLETE | **COMPLETE** | Switching matrix validated |
| **RQ-013** | COMPLETE | **COMPLETE** | Topology schema validated |

---

## Audit Trail

| Timestamp | Action | Agent |
|-----------|--------|-------|
| 14 Jan 2026 19:09 | Deep Think prompt created | Claude (protocol-13-audit-JdHBT) |
| 14 Jan 2026 | Deep Think response received | Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking |
| 14 Jan 2026 | Protocol 9 reconciliation (session crashed) | Claude (protocol-13-audit-JdHBT) |
| 14 Jan 2026 | Reconciliation document created (recovery) | Claude (resume-schema-audit-WN58t) |

---

*This reconciliation follows Protocol 9 (External Research Reconciliation) and Protocol 10 (Bias Analysis) from AI_AGENT_PROTOCOL.md.*

Commit message:

docs: resolve E-004 (CD-019) + create Sherlock Intelligence Deep Think prompt
CD-019 Created:
- 5-Domain Facet Taxonomy CONFIRMED: vocational, somatic, relational, intellectual, recovery
- E-004 escalation RESOLVED per human approval

Deep Think Prompt Created (RQ-034 + RQ-035):
- Sherlock Conversation Architecture (HIGH priority 6.8)
- Sensitivity Detection Framework (HIGH priority 6.3)
- ~700 lines, comprehensive multi-domain expert prompt
- Covers: conversation state machine, turn-taking, 7-day structure,
  sensitivity tiers, crisis protocols, schema design

Key features:
- 22 sub-questions across both RQs
- Anti-pattern sections for both conversation design and sensitivity handling
- Complete output checklists with 25+ deliverables
- Academic citation requirements (MI, Woebot, CLPsych, SAMHSA)
- Integration specification between RQ-034 and RQ-035

Next: Execute prompt in Deep Think for comprehensive Sherlock design

docs/analysis/DEEP_THINK_RECONCILIATION_RQ048ab_RQ014_RQ013_SCHEMA_FOUNDATION.md, after:

# Deep Think Reconciliation: Schema Foundation
# RQ-048a, RQ-048b, RQ-014, RQ-013

> **Reconciled:** 14 January 2026
> **Protocol:** 9 (External Research Reconciliation) + Protocol 10 (Bias Analysis)
> **Source:** Google Deep Think / Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking
> **Prompt:** `DEEP_THINK_PROMPT_RQ048ab_RQ014_RQ013_SCHEMA_FOUNDATION.md`
> **Overall Verdict:** HIGH QUALITY — Minor modifications for MVP scope compliance

---

## Executive Summary

The Deep Think response provided comprehensive architectural definitions for "Physics of Identity" in The Pact. Key outputs:

| RQ | Deep Think Output | Reconciliation Verdict |
|----|-------------------|------------------------|
| **RQ-048a** | 6-Domain Wellness Model (vocational, somatic, relational, intellectual, creative, spiritual) | MODIFY → 5 domains (drop spiritual, merge creative into intellectual) |
| **RQ-048b** | Cabinet of 5 (soft), Safety 9 (DB), Hard 15 | MODIFY → Hard cap 12 (not 15) |
| **RQ-014** | Asymmetric Switching Cost Matrix validated | ACCEPT |
| **RQ-013** | Directed Graph Topology with "Airlock" Composite Keys | ACCEPT |

---

## Phase 1: Locked Decision Audit

| CD | Requirement | Deep Think Compliance | Status |
|----|-------------|----------------------|--------|
| **CD-015** | 4-state energy model (high_focus, high_physical, social, recovery) | Uses exact 4 states in energy_state_enum | **COMPATIBLE** |
| **CD-016** | DeepSeek V3.2 / R1 Distilled | N/A (schema doesn't affect AI selection) | **COMPATIBLE** |
| **CD-017** | Android-first | N/A (schema is platform-agnostic) | **COMPATIBLE** |
| **CD-018** | ESSENTIAL/VALUABLE/NICE-TO-HAVE threshold | 6-domain taxonomy needs evaluation | **NEEDS REVIEW** |

**Conflicts Found:** NONE with locked CDs. However, 6-domain taxonomy expansion requires CD-018 evaluation.

---

## Phase 2: Data Reality Audit

| Proposal | Android Reality | Verification |
|----------|-----------------|--------------|
| VECTOR(3072) | gemini-embedding-001 confirmed in RQ-019 | **CORRECT** |
| Chronotype bias | No platform dependency | **CORRECT** |
| Composite key "Airlock" | Standard PostgreSQL | **CORRECT** |

---

## Phase 3: Implementation Reality Check

### Schema Reality

| Proposed Table | Exists? | Notes |
|----------------|---------|-------|
| `identity_facets` | NO | Greenfield — Deep Think schema can be adopted |
| `identity_topology` | NO | Greenfield |
| `psychometric_roots` | Schema exists in RQ-012 | Must integrate |

### Missing from Deep Think Schema (compared to prior research)

| Field | Original Proposal | Deep Think | Issue |
|-------|-------------------|------------|-------|
| `keystone_habit_id` | Included | **MISSING** | Needed for "One habit = one identity" anchor |
| `sort_order` | E-001 (Escalated) | **MISSING** | User-defined ordering |
| `psychological_manifestations` link | RQ-012 | **NOT REFERENCED** | Fractal Trinity integration |

---

## Phase 4: Scope & Complexity Audit (CD-018)

| Proposal | Rating | Rationale |
|----------|--------|-----------|
| 6-Domain Taxonomy | NEEDS EVALUATION | Original was 4. Is "intellectual", "creative", "spiritual" necessary for MVP? |
| Cognitive Limits (5/9/15) | VALUABLE | Solid research basis (Cowan 2001) |
| Switching Cost Matrix | ESSENTIAL | Core to JITAI intelligence |
| Airlock Pattern | ESSENTIAL | Security/isolation pattern |
| DEPENDENT interaction type | VALUABLE | Captures parent-child facet relationships |

### 6-Domain Analysis

| Domain | In Original? | Deep Think Justification | MVP Necessity |
|--------|--------------|--------------------------|---------------|
| vocational | (was "professional") | Renamed | **ESSENTIAL** |
| somatic | (was "physical") | Renamed | **ESSENTIAL** |
| relational | Same | Same | **ESSENTIAL** |
| intellectual | NEW | "Skill acquisition, curiosity" | **VALUABLE** |
| creative | NEW | "Artistic expression" | **VALUABLE** |
| spiritual | NEW | "Meaning, ethics, service" | **NICE-TO-HAVE** |

---

## Phase 5: ACCEPT / MODIFY / REJECT / ESCALATE

### ACCEPT (8 proposals)

| # | Proposal | Rationale |
|---|----------|-----------|
| 1 | 4-State Energy Enum | Matches CD-015 exactly |
| 2 | Asymmetric Switching Cost Matrix | Well-researched (Leroy 2009), validates CD-015 |
| 3 | Chronotype Modifiers | Extends RQ-012 chronotype work |
| 4 | Cognitive Limits: Soft 5 | Cowan (2001) research basis solid |
| 5 | Directed Graph Topology | Correctly models asymmetric relationships |
| 6 | Airlock Pattern (Composite FK) | Excellent security pattern for tenant isolation |
| 7 | DEPENDENT interaction type | Captures parent-child (e.g., "Runner" depends on "Athlete") |
| 8 | Passive Energy Detection Algorithm | Aligns with RQ-010a/b permission accuracy model |

### MODIFY (4 proposals)

| # | Proposal | Original | Modified | Rationale |
|---|----------|----------|----------|-----------|
| 1 | Domain Taxonomy | 6 domains | **5 domains** (merge creative into intellectual) | "Creative" overlaps with "Intellectual" for MVP; reduces cognitive load |
| 2 | Hard Cap | 15 | **12** | 15 is excessive; 12 = 2× safety cap, sufficient for edge cases |
| 3 | Schema: Missing keystone_habit_id | Not included | **ADD** `keystone_habit_id UUID REFERENCES habits(id)` | Core to "One keystone habit per facet" concept |
| 4 | Schema: Missing sort_order | Not included | **ADD** `sort_order INT DEFAULT 0` | E-001 escalation (user recommendation: Include) |

### REJECT (1 proposal)

| # | Proposal | Reason |
|---|----------|--------|
| 1 | "spiritual" domain as separate | **OVER-ENGINEERED** for MVP. Can be added post-launch. Users seeking "spiritual" can use "relational" (service to others) or free-text labels. |

### ESCALATE (1 proposal) → RESOLVED 14 Jan 2026

| # | Proposal | Question | Resolution | Outcome |
|---|----------|----------|------------|---------|
| 1 | 5-Domain vs 4-Domain | Is "intellectual" distinct enough from "vocational"? | **Option A ACCEPTED** by human | → **CD-019** |

**CD-019: 5-Domain Facet Taxonomy**
- Domains: `vocational`, `somatic`, `relational`, `intellectual`, `recovery`
- Rationale: "The Reader" is clearly distinct from "The Founder"

---

## Phase 6: Protocol 10 — Bias Analysis

### Assumptions Identified

| # | Assumption | Validity | Basis |
|---|------------|----------|-------|
| 1 | Cowan (2001) 4±1 working memory applies to identity facets | **MEDIUM** | Study was about abstract chunks, not identity constructs. Extrapolation reasonable but untested. |
| 2 | Hettler (1976) 6 Wellness Dimensions are universal | **MEDIUM** | Western-centric model; may not capture all cultural identity patterns. |
| 3 | Leroy (2009) Attention Residue applies to identity switching | **HIGH** | Direct application — switching from work identity to family identity is exactly this phenomenon. |
| 4 | Focus → Social costs more than Social → Focus | **HIGH** | Well-documented in interruption science (Ophir et al., 2009; Mark et al., 2008). |
| 5 | 15 hard cap is sufficient | **LOW** | No empirical basis cited; appears arbitrary. Reduced to 12 in MODIFY. |
| 6 | "Airlock" pattern prevents all cross-tenant leaks | **HIGH** | PostgreSQL FK constraints are deterministic. |
| 7 | Passive energy detection achieves useful accuracy | **MEDIUM** | Depends heavily on permission grant rates (RQ-010a: varies 30-85%). |

### Confidence Decision

| LOW-Validity Count | Action |
|--------------------|--------|
| 1 (Assumption #5) | **PROCEED** with HIGH confidence (only 1 LOW, and we modified it) |

---

## Summary of Changes

| Category | Count |
|----------|-------|
| ACCEPT | 8 |
| MODIFY | 4 |
| REJECT | 1 |
| ESCALATE | 1 |

### Key Changes from Deep Think

1. **5 domains (not 6)** — drop "spiritual", merge "creative" into "intellectual"
2. **Hard cap 12 (not 15)**
3. **Add `keystone_habit_id` field**
4. **Add `sort_order` field** (per E-001)

---

## Validated Schema (Post-Reconciliation)

```sql
-- 1. ENUMS (MODIFIED from Deep Think)
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vector;

CREATE TYPE facet_domain_enum AS ENUM (
  'vocational',    -- Career, wealth, production, craft
  'somatic',       -- Physical body, health, athletics
  'relational',    -- Interpersonal, family, community
  'intellectual',  -- Skill acquisition, curiosity, INCLUDES creative expression
  'recovery'       -- Rest, meaning, inner peace (ABSORBED spiritual)
);

CREATE TYPE energy_state_enum AS ENUM (
  'high_focus', 'high_physical', 'social', 'recovery'
);

CREATE TYPE facet_status_enum AS ENUM (
  'active', 'maintenance', 'dormant', 'archived'
);

CREATE TYPE interaction_type_enum AS ENUM (
  'SYNERGISTIC', 'ANTAGONISTIC', 'COMPETITIVE', 'DEPENDENT'
);

-- 2. IDENTITY FACETS (MODIFIED: added keystone_habit_id, sort_order)
CREATE TABLE identity_facets (
  id UUID PRIMARY KEY DEFAULT gen_random_uuid(),
  user_id UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES auth.users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,

  -- Core Identity
  label TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (char_length(label) BETWEEN 2 AND 50),
  domain facet_domain_enum NOT NULL,
  aspiration TEXT CHECK (char_length(aspiration) < 280),

  -- State & Economics
  typical_energy_state energy_state_enum NOT NULL,
  chronotype_bias TEXT DEFAULT 'neutral', -- 'morning', 'evening', 'neutral'

  -- ADDED: Keystone habit anchor (from prior research)
  keystone_habit_id UUID REFERENCES habits(id) ON DELETE SET NULL,

  -- ADDED: User-defined ordering (E-001)
  sort_order INT DEFAULT 0,

  -- AI & Metadata
  embedding VECTOR(3072), -- Gemini 001 dimensions
  status facet_status_enum NOT NULL DEFAULT 'active',

  -- Timestamps
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  updated_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),
  last_engaged_at TIMESTAMPTZ,

  -- Constraints
  CONSTRAINT uk_facets_label_user UNIQUE (user_id, label),
  CONSTRAINT uk_facets_id_user UNIQUE (id, user_id) -- Airlock pattern
);

-- 3. IDENTITY TOPOLOGY (UNCHANGED from Deep Think)
CREATE TABLE identity_topology (
  source_facet_id UUID NOT NULL,
  target_facet_id UUID NOT NULL,
  user_id UUID NOT NULL REFERENCES auth.users(id) ON DELETE CASCADE,

  -- Physics
  interaction_type interaction_type_enum NOT NULL,
  friction_coefficient FLOAT NOT NULL CHECK (friction_coefficient BETWEEN 0.0 AND 1.0),
  switching_cost_minutes INT DEFAULT 15,

  -- Metadata
  is_inferred BOOLEAN DEFAULT TRUE,
  created_at TIMESTAMPTZ DEFAULT NOW(),

  -- Constraints
  PRIMARY KEY (source_facet_id, target_facet_id),
  CONSTRAINT no_self_loops CHECK (source_facet_id != target_facet_id),
  CONSTRAINT fk_source_facet FOREIGN KEY (source_facet_id, user_id)
    REFERENCES identity_facets(id, user_id) ON DELETE CASCADE,
  CONSTRAINT fk_target_facet FOREIGN KEY (target_facet_id, user_id)
    REFERENCES identity_facets(id, user_id) ON DELETE CASCADE
);

-- 4. INDEXES
CREATE INDEX idx_facets_user_status ON identity_facets(user_id, status);
CREATE INDEX idx_facets_sort ON identity_facets(user_id, sort_order);
CREATE INDEX idx_topology_user ON identity_topology(user_id);

-- 5. TRIGGER: FACET LIMITS (MODIFIED: hard cap 12)
CREATE OR REPLACE FUNCTION check_facet_limits()
RETURNS TRIGGER AS $$
DECLARE
  active_count INT;
  total_count INT;
BEGIN
  -- 1. Check Hard Cap (Total: 12, reduced from 15)
  SELECT COUNT(*) INTO total_count FROM identity_facets
  WHERE user_id = NEW.user_id AND status != 'archived';

  IF total_count >= 12 THEN
    RAISE EXCEPTION 'Hard Limit: Maximum 12 facets allowed per user.';
  END IF;

  -- 2. Check Safety Cap (Active: 9)
  IF NEW.status = 'active' THEN
    SELECT COUNT(*) INTO active_count FROM identity_facets
    WHERE user_id = NEW.user_id AND status = 'active' AND id != NEW.id;

    IF active_count >= 9 THEN
      RAISE EXCEPTION 'Safety Limit: Maximum 9 active facets allowed (UX suggests 5).';
    END IF;
  END IF;

  RETURN NEW;
END;
$$ LANGUAGE plpgsql;

CREATE TRIGGER tr_check_facet_limits
BEFORE INSERT OR UPDATE ON identity_facets
FOR EACH ROW EXECUTE FUNCTION check_facet_limits();
```

---

## Validated Switching Cost Matrix (RQ-014)

### Asymmetric Switching Costs (Minutes)

Time required to transition from [ROW] to [COLUMN]:

| FROM ↓ / TO → | high_focus | high_physical | social | recovery |
|---------------|------------|---------------|--------|----------|
| **high_focus** | — | 15 (Gear up) | 30 (Detach) | 45 (Wind down) |
| **high_physical** | 25 (Cool down) | — | 20 (Clean up) | 15 (Crash) |
| **social** | 30 (Residue) | 15 (Release) | — | 15 (Decompress) |
| **recovery** | 20 (Inertia) | 15 (Warm up) | 10 (Wake up) | — |

### Chronotype Modifiers (INTO high_focus)

| Chronotype | 06:00-10:00 (AM) | 20:00-24:00 (PM) |
|------------|------------------|------------------|
| Lion (Morning) | -5 min (Flow) | +15 min (Crash) |
| Bear (Normal) | 0 min | +5 min |
| Wolf (Evening) | +20 min (Inertia) | -5 min (Flow) |
| Dolphin (Insomnia) | +5 min | +5 min |

---

## Implementation Tasks Generated

### New Tasks (Add to RESEARCH_QUESTIONS.md)

| Task ID | Description | Phase | Priority | Blocks |
|---------|-------------|-------|----------|--------|
| **A-01** | Create `identity_facets` table with validated schema | A | P0 | All Phase H |
| **A-06** | Create `identity_topology` table with Airlock pattern | A | P0 | A-13 |
| **A-19** | Add `keystone_habit_id` FK to identity_facets | A | P1 | — |
| **A-20** | Add `sort_order` field to identity_facets | A | P1 | — |
| **A-21** | Create facet limit trigger (5/9/12 thresholds) | A | P1 | — |
| **B-15** | Implement passive energy detection algorithm | B | P1 | JITAI |

### Escalated Decision (E-004)

| ID | Decision | Options | Recommendation | Impact |
|----|----------|---------|----------------|--------|
| **E-004** | 5-Domain vs 4-Domain Taxonomy | A) 5 domains (intellectual separate) B) 4 domains (vocational absorbs intellectual) | **A (5 domains)** | Enum definition, UI facet creation |

---

## RQ Status Updates

| RQ | Previous Status | New Status | Notes |
|----|-----------------|------------|-------|
| **RQ-048a** | NEEDS RESEARCH | **COMPLETE** | 5-Domain taxonomy validated |
| **RQ-048b** | NEEDS RESEARCH | **COMPLETE** | Cognitive limits (5/9/12) validated |
| **RQ-014** | COMPLETE | **COMPLETE** | Switching matrix validated |
| **RQ-013** | COMPLETE | **COMPLETE** | Topology schema validated |

---

## Audit Trail

| Timestamp | Action | Agent |
|-----------|--------|-------|
| 14 Jan 2026 19:09 | Deep Think prompt created | Claude (protocol-13-audit-JdHBT) |
| 14 Jan 2026 | Deep Think response received | Gemini 2.0 Flash Thinking |
| 14 Jan 2026 | Protocol 9 reconciliation (session crashed) | Claude (protocol-13-audit-JdHBT) |
| 14 Jan 2026 | Reconciliation document created (recovery) | Claude (resume-schema-audit-WN58t) |

---

*This reconciliation follows Protocol 9 (External Research Reconciliation) and Protocol 10 (Bias Analysis) from AI_AGENT_PROTOCOL.md.*
